sl
What is a programming language?
Answer: A programming language is a set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment that offers a collection of tools and
libraries necessary for developing Java applications. You need the JDK to convert your source code into a format that
the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) can execute. The JDK includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter
(java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc), and some other development tools.
The Java Runtime Environment itself consists of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), supporting files, and core classes

What is an IDE?
Answer:IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment, enables programmers to consolidate the different aspects of
writing a computer program. IDEs increase programmer productivity by combining common activities of writing software
into a single application: editing source code, building executables, and debugging

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: Intellij, Eclipse, Netbeans, etc

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:When we write a code in Java language, it is saved as a .java file on the disk. We then compile this text file
using the Java compiler, which result in a .class file being created on the disk. The .class file contains the
bytecodes. The file is then loaded into memory by the class loader. The bytecode verifier confirms that the bytecodes
are valid and not hostile. Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translates them into machine code.

What is a class?
Answer: In Java, the class is defined as a template/blueprint that describes the behavior or state of the object of its type.

What is an object?
Answer: An object is an instance of a class. It has states and behaviors.

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer: The main method is the entry point of the java application.

Why is the main() static?
Answer: As the main method is very important in Java. It's the entry point of the java program to start exectuion.
Therefore, it needs a permanent space in the memory so that it can run the java program. That's why main() method is
static. As it is static, compiler can call this method without/before creating any object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:"Object" class is the superclass of all classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:PATH is an environment variable. It is used by operating system to find the executable files (.exe) or in other words
java binaries (java or javac). CLASSPATH is also an environment variable used by Application ClassLoader to locate and
load the .class files(compiled java bytecodes).


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:In Interface, all methods are abstract, no method can be concrete. But in Abstract class, concrete method can
also be present. In any method is abstract in the class, the class must be defined as abstract (using the abstract
keyword to define an abstract class).

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:We cannot make an object from an interface or from an abstract class but we can implement the interface and
inherit the abstract class. If we do so, we must have to implement all the abstract methods in the Interface and the
Abstract class.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer: Access Modifier describes the scope of the class, constructor, variable, method, or data members.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:"OOP" stands for Object Oriented Programming. In Java, there are four main feature of OOPs. These are:
Inheritance, Polymorphism, Encapsulation and Abstraction.

Inheritance: child class can inherit the properties of it's parent class (by using 'extends' keyword) but the opposite
is not true (i.e. the parent class cannot inherit the properties of the child class.

Polymorphism: A class can have any number of methods and/or constructors provided that their signatures are different.
The concept is called method overloading/static polymorphism/compile time polymorphism.
Dynamic or run time polymorphism: if the child class has a method and the parent class has the same method with the
same signature, JVM will execute the method located in the child class itself, but if the child class does not have that
class, the method in the immediate parent will be executed, otherwise it will execute the next parent. This is managed
by JVA in runtime.

Encapsulation: It describes the idea of wrapping data and methods that work on that data within one unit/class
in Java. In encapsulation, the variables of a class will be hidden from other classes, and can be accessed only through
the methods of their current class. Therefore, it is also known as data hiding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces.
By default, the  java. lang package is imported automatically by compiler.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:"API" stands for Application Programming Interface. It is a document that includes all the packages, classes,
and interfaces, along with their fields and methods.

We used the following API's so far: Apache poi, MySQL Connector/The Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), File Reader,
BufferedReader, Scanner, date time API etc.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: NO. Java does not support multiple inheritance. Because, if multiple parent of a child class have the same
methods with exactly the same signatures, JVM cannot determine which one to execute.

What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:In a class, if there are more than one methods with different signatures, this is called method overloading. It
happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:  An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of the
program's instructions. When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the
runtime system. ... This block of code is called an exception handler.

We can use try/catch block to handle exceptions. We can also use throw (for single exception)/throws (for multiple
 exceptions) keyword at the definition of the method to
handle potential exceptions.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: the keyword static indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself, rather than to an instance of
that type. This means that only one instance of that static member is created which is shared across all instances of
the class.
If we want to access a data member or methods of a class without creating of its object, we need to define that static.
Suppose "Animal" class has a static method "sound()", we can call that method from other class as follows:
Animal.sound();

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:final is one of the 48 reserved keywords is used in java. It is used to define a class/variable/method.
The purpose of using the final keyword is different for class, variable, and method.
If we declare a method as final, then it cannot be overridden by any subclasses.
If we declare a class as final, we restrict the other classes to inherit or extend it.
If we declare a variable as final, it's value cannot be changed.

We need to use "final" keyword in front of the variable or class or method to declare it as final.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer: final keyword is used to define a class/variable/method to restrict if to be changed.
finally block: it is used at the end of the try/catch block. it is executed whether or not the try or catch block
is executed.
finalize method: finalize is the method in Java which is used to perform clean up processing just before object is
garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
Answer: It's a block of code similar to a method (but without a return type) that's called when an instance of an
object is created. It has the same name as the class name. It can have zero or any number of parameters. The default
constructor has no parameter.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:YES. all the constructor must have different signatures. This is called constructor overloading.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: In such case, the default constructor is called. It has no parameter.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:Within an instance method or a constructor, this is a reference to the current object — the object whose
method or constructor is being called.

We use this keyword to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the
same name (because a class attribute is shadowed by a method or constructor parameter).
Return the current class object.

"this" can be used to Invoke current class constructor, method, object, and pass an argument during calling a method or
a constructor.

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:
The super keyword in java is a reference variable that is used to refer parent class objects. Basically this form of
super is used to initialize superclass variables when there is no constructor present in superclass.

"super" can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. super can be used to invoke immediate parent
class method. But "super()" can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:JVM stand for Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:No, JVMs are not platform independent. In fact they are platform specific run time environment provided by the
 vendor. Each platform (Windows, UNIX, Mac etc) has its own JVM to run Java applications.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer: I am using Java version: 11.0.12

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:JAR stands for Java ARchive. It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and is used for
aggregating many files into one

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:
JDK (= JRE + developments tools):
JDK stands for Java Development Kit. It is a software development environment which  is used to developping and
debugging Java applications and applets. It physically exists. It contains JRE + development tools.

The JDK contains a private Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and a few other resources such as an interpreter/loader (java),
a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (Javadoc), etc. to complete the development of a Java
Application.

JVM:
JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is called a virtual machine because it doesn't physically exist.
It is a specification that provides a runtime environment in which Java bytecode can be executed. It can also run those
 programs which are written in other languages and compiled to Java bytecode.

JVMs are available for many hardware and software platforms. JVM, JRE, and JDK are platform dependent because the
configuration of each OS is different from each other. However, Java is platform independent. There are three notions
 of the JVM: specification, implementation, and instance.


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:
JVM:
JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is called a virtual machine because it doesn't physically exist.
It is a specification that provides a runtime environment in which Java bytecode can be executed. It can also run those
 programs which are written in other languages and compiled to Java bytecode.

JVMs are available for many hardware and software platforms. JVM, JRE, and JDK are platform dependent because the
configuration of each OS is different from each other. However, Java is platform independent. There are three notions
 of the JVM: specification, implementation, and instance.

JRE (= JVM + set of libraries & other files):
JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment. It is also written as Java RTE. The Java Runtime Environment is a set
of software tools which are used for developing Java applications. It is used to provide the runtime environment. It is
the implementation of JVM. It physically exists. It contains a set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.




Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:
Compile-time: This happens when Java compiler identify the syntax errors during writing the codes.
Run-time: This happens during the execution of the java codes.


What is heap?
Answer:The Java heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.
Heap space in Java is used for dynamic memory allocation for Java objects and JRE classes at the runtime. New objects
are always created in heap space. It's accessed via complex memory management techniques. If heap space is full, Java
throws java.lang.OutOfMemoryError.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:Java manages it's memory by garbage collection feature.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:
These are classes in Java. The String class is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes
are mutable.

StringBuffer is synchronized i.e. thread safe. It means two threads can't call the methods of StringBuffer simultaneously.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:in While loop before execution it will cheake the condition. If the conditions are met then it execute.
On the other hand Do.. while loop first execute the method once then it will cheak the conditions. If it met then it will
execute the loop.

What is Enum?
Answer:Enum is a constant variable in Java.
Enum is a special type of class that contains a set of predefined constants and/or methods. The object of enum cannot be
 created like a class. The use of the variables are controlled to those that have been predefined for it. Common
 examples include compass directions (values of NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, and WEST) and the days of the week. It can be used
 is switch statements. Enum cannot inherit (or extend) other class but it can implement Interfaces. It internally
 (implicitly) extends the class java.lang.Enum. As Java does not support multiple inheritance, Enum cannot inherit any other class
 explicitly.

What is Iterator?
Answer:
An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet. It is called an
"iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping. To use an Iterator, you must import it from the
java. util package.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:Integer will take more memory. It's a wrapper class of int. If we cast an Integer data into int, it will lose
data.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:
The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and class loading.
The reason of making string final is to destroy the immutability and to not allow others to extend it. The String
objects are cached in the String pool, and it makes the String immutable.

Caching the String literals and reusing them saves a lot of heap space because different String variables refer to the
same object in the String pool. String intern pool serves exactly this purpose. Java String Pool is the special memory
region where Strings are stored by the JVM. Since Strings are immutable in Java, the JVM optimizes the amount of
memory allocated for them by storing only one copy of each literal String in the pool. This process is called
interning



What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:

In Java, constructor chaining is a sequence of invoking constructors upon initializing an object. It is used when we
want to invoke a number of constructors, one after another by using only an instance.

In constructor chain, a constructor is called from another constructor in the same class this process is known as
constructor chaining. It occurs through inheritance. When we create an instance of a derived class, all the
constructors of the inherited class (base class) are first invoked, after that the constructor of the calling class
(derived class) is invoked.

Within the same class: If the constructors belong to the same class, we use this
From the base class: If the constructor belongs to different classes (parent and child classes), we use the super
keyword to call the constructor from the base class.


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:
The main difference between them is that a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC
thread for garbage collection while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:
JIT is a part of the JVM that optimizes the performance of the application. JIT stands for Java-In-Time Compiler.
The JIT compilation is also known as dynamic compilation. JIT compiler is a component of the runtime environment that
improves the performance of Java™ applications by compiling bytecodes to native machine code at run time.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:
Java garbage collection is an automatic process. The programmer does not need to explicitly mark objects to be deleted.
The garbage collection implementation lives in the JVM. Each JVM can implement garbage collection however it pleases;
the only requirement is that it meets the JVM specification.

In the first step, unreferenced objects are identified and marked as ready for garbage collection. In the second step,
marked objects are deleted. Optionally, memory can be compacted after the garbage collector deletes objects, so
remaining objects are in a contiguous block at the start of the heap. The compaction process makes it easier to
allocate memory to new objects sequentially after the block of memory allocated to existing objects

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:No. It is an automatic process of Java.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:
The JVM divides the memory into two parts: stack memory and heap memory. From the perspective of Java, both are
important memory areas but both are used for different purposes. The major difference between Stack memory and heap
memory is that the stack is used to store the order of method execution and local variables while the heap memory
stores the objects and it uses dynamic memory allocation and deallocation.


What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:
Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the
names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time. It is also possible to instantiate new objects, invoke methods and
get/set field values using reflection


What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:
In Java, Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum utilization of
the CPU.
Multithreading saves time as you can perform multiple operations together.
The threads are independent, so it does not block the user to perform multiple operations at the same time and also,
if an exception occurs in a single thread, it does not affect other threads

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:
Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource. In the
Multithreading concept, multiple threads try to access the shared resources at a time to produce inconsistent results.
The synchronization is necessary for reliable communication between threads


What is a Framework?
Answer:
Java frameworks are bodies of reusable pre-written code acting as templates that developers can use to create
applications by filling in custom code as needed. Frameworks are created to be used over and over so that developers can program applications without the manual overhead
of creating everything from scratch

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:

Selenium, Serenity, JUnit, TestNG, Cucumber, JBehave, Mockito

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:
JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded
option for running tests. Parallel test Runs. JUnit does not support to run parallel tests. TestNG can run parallel
tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer: Selenium-java, Selenium-servier, apache poi, MySQL connector/JDBC, JUnit jars,

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:
Dependency Injection (DI) is a design pattern that removes the dependency from the programming code so that it can be
easy to manage and test the application. Dependency Injection makes our programming code loosely coupled.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:
Static binding happens when all information needed to call a function is available at the compile-time. Dynamic binding
happens when the compiler cannot determine all information needed for a function call at compile-time